# sphere_tiler

playing with tiles mapped onto a sphere

Quick help:
you'll need to install python, with modules pygame and numpy. I used python 3.12 and pygame 2.5.2.

The examples can be generated by uncommenting the ones you are interested in at the bottom of
`examples.py` and running this file, eg `python examples.py`.

`$ python brain_tile.py`
or `$ python rainbow_tile.py`

creates a file {brain,rainbow}_tile.png, containing a regular hexagonal tile. The tile must be transparent (alpha=0)
outside the
hexagon. The hexagon has horizontal sides aligned with the top and bottom of the image.

`$ python hextiles.py <tile_file> <tile_scale>`

reads the tile file (default `tile.png`) scales it (default 1.0) and tiles it across the plane in the usual hexagonal
tiling with random rotations
and reflections (with a background colour added) and creates `output.png`

`<tile_file>` defaults to `tile.png`

`<tile_scale>` defaults to `1.0`, and changes the relative size of the tile before placing it in the plane.

`$ python project_to_sphere.py <plane_image> <sphere_radius> <shadow>`

Loads the plane image and wraps it around a sphere of given radius in pixels, with some
shadowing. The arguments are optional and default to `output.png`, `1200` and `0.3`.
Setting shadowing to 0 turns it off. Larger numbers are darker.

The file `nested_spheres.py` has functions to generate some pretty objects. These are obtained
by nesting several partially transparent spheres to get a sense of depth. You'll need to uncomment
the ones you want to try (at the bottom of the file) before running it.

## Torus

The file `project_to_torus.py` has function which can wrap a plane around a torus and shade it.
It's slow.  For a 1200 pixel square output it's taking about 20 minutes on my machine.  This would be better
done by GPU, or at least in a compiled-to-native-code language.  

There are three examples of this in the `examples.py` file.  One to map the pink-ribboned plane,
one for a plane made of pastel hexagons, and one to make a torus out of images of a bagel.
See `make_bagel.py` for how to make the bagel tile image.

That's all!

Please do mention aardvarkkrill if you do anything good with this code. And tell me about it!
